README.md, before:

# BRAIN KIDS

Brain Kids is an educational website for children in their early years of school to build their addition and subtraction math skills in a fun and exciting way. In the future Brain Kids is planning to release new games.

![Responsive screen image](./assets/docs/introduction/response.png)

## Project Goals

The goal of this project is to create an interactive math game for children to enjoy.

### Target Audience

- Children who are in early-year school and just starting to learn basic math skills
- Parents who want their children to build up their addition and subtraction skills

### User Goals

- Children can have fun and learn while playing
- User can get used to calculating addition and subtraction and build their confidence
- It increases in difficulty but also motivates
- Games that parents can safely give to their children

### Site Owner Goals

- Develop a game that users can play addition and subtraction math game
- Develop a website that is easy to navigate for children and adults
- Provide a game that can help children to learn
- Provide a game that can be played safely for children
- Set up a subscription service to inform users of more educational games coming in the future

## User Experience (UX)

### User Requirements and Expectations

- Games that can be safely provided to children
- Easy to use
- Responsive on a range of devices
- User Can read and understand numbers between at least 1 to 100
- User Understand basic math operations ( plus and minus)
- User has no hesitation in learning

### User Stories

(Parents side)

1.  As a user, I want to let my children play educational games so they can boost their skills
2.  As a user, I want my children to enjoy learning so that they will see it as a fun activity
3.  As a user, I can use different devices so I can play on a phone or computer
4.  As a user, I can turn on or off the sound so I can choose if I want to hear the music
5.  As a user, I want to give feedback so the game designer knows how people are using their game
6.  As a user, I want to know if there are new games that will be released so I can play them

(children's side)

7. As a user, I want to improve my math skills so I can become more confident
8. As a user, I want to learn but also have fun so I can enjoy learning
9. As a user, I want to see how I am improving my math skills so I know I am getting better

### Features To Achieve These Goals

- Games are only learning-based (User story 1)
- Learning materials are game-based so children can enjoy (User stories 2,8)
- The website uses a responsive design that can be seen on different devices (User stories 3)
- Sound can be on or off (User stories 4)
- Social media icons provided on the footer give the option to users to leave feedback or contact us. Also, BRAIN KIDS provide news (User Stories 5,6)
- There is a sign-up page that can provide notifications of upcoming games to play in the future ( User stories 6)
- Addition and subtraction math game is provided (User stories 7)
- Different sound effects and audio have a positive effect on users (User stories 8)
- Math game level goes up which gives users more of a challenge (User stories 9)
- Scoreboard allows users to show their improvements (User stories 9)

## Design

As this is an educational game website for children it is catered to children, I decided to use bright colours that are cheerful and playful. The pictures in the game are chosen for children who would enjoy seeing the characters but also motivate them to learn.

### Logo

The base logo was found on the [Canva](https://www.canva.com/colors/color-palette-generator/) website. But it wasn’t clear when it was displayed on the website. So I made some changes with Photoshop and made the background transparent to display it better.

![Logo image](./assets/docs/design/logo.png)

### Colour Scheme

The tetradic colour scheme is used for this website.
Based on the colours of the colour chart shown below. Different lightness and opacity are used all over this website.

![Colour wheel image](./assets/docs/design/colour-wheel.png)
![Colour chart image](./assets/docs/design/colour-chart.png)

These different lightness are used for background colours of buttons to give better contrast.

![Colour chart for button image](./assets/docs/design/colour-chart-buttons.png)

Social media icon colours are referenced from the [U.S BRAND COLOURS](https://usbrandcolors.com/)

### Fonts

The Afacad font style was chosen for this website. It is clear and easy to read. [Google fonts: Afacad](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Afacad)

![Font style image](./assets/docs/design/font-style.png)

## Structure

The structure implemented for this project is a single HTML page that provides different pages.
The top of the page allows the user to access the game page, audio control that can be turned on and off, scoreboard and sign-up page. There are social media icons on the footer to promote this website in the future and allow users to give us feedback or ask questions. The logo has an anchor tag that can lead you to the start game page.

- Game

  The Start Game button will display the actual game screen so that the
  user can play the game.

- Game Over

  Letting users know that the game is over and shows the score they have
  gained. The home button will access the game start page.

- Score

  Provide the highest score and the previous attempt scores. The back
  button has access to go back to the start game page

- Sign Up

  Sign-up allows users to get notifications of upcoming games. after the
  form is filled out and the subscription button is pressed, it leads to a
  success message to give users feedback on their sign-up

### Technologies Used

- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript

### Frameworks

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons)
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- [Favicon](https://fonts.google.com/)

### Tools

- GitHub
- Visual Studio Code
- Photoshop
- Illustrator

## Features

### Header

-     The header shows the logo of Brain Kids which gives the impression that this is a child’s educational website.  The sign-up button leads to the sign-up page

The header shows the logo of Brain Kids which gives the impression that this is a child’s educational website. The sign-up button leads to the sign-up page

Desktop

[Header(Desktop) image](./assets/docs/features/header-desktop.png)

Mobile

![Header(Mobile) image](./assets/docs/features/header-mobile.png)

### Top main page

- The introduction section explains to users what this game is like and explains how to play
- The start button is clearly shown on the screen to start the game
- An audio icon button that can be turned on and off as the user clicks it. When the button is clicked the audio icon will change to show the status of the audio.
- A score button to show the scoreboard
- The image uses children playing with an abacus which gives users the understanding this game is related to mathematics for children

This section provides users with an understanding of the aim of the game. The audio button benefits users by having controls for the sound. To place the score button just under the start button, the user will see that there is a scoreboard feature. They can check their progress between games. With the big red standout start button, users can see at a glance where the start button is to start this game.

![Main page (Desktop) image](./assets/docs/features/main-desktop.png)
![Main page (Mobile) image](./assets/docs/features/main-mobile.png)
![Sound on image](./assets/docs/features/sound-on.png)

Commit message:

Add details of the game page in the features section in README

README.md, after:

# BRAIN KIDS

Brain Kids is an educational website for children in their early years of school to build their addition and subtraction math skills in a fun and exciting way. In the future Brain Kids is planning to release new games.

![Responsive screen image](./assets/docs/introduction/response.png)

## Project Goals

The goal of this project is to create an interactive math game for children to enjoy.

### Target Audience

- Children who are in early-year school and just starting to learn basic math skills
- Parents who want their children to build up their addition and subtraction skills

### User Goals

- Children can have fun and learn while playing
- User can get used to calculating addition and subtraction and build their confidence
- It increases in difficulty but also motivates
- Games that parents can safely give to their children

### Site Owner Goals

- Develop a game that users can play addition and subtraction math game
- Develop a website that is easy to navigate for children and adults
- Provide a game that can help children to learn
- Provide a game that can be played safely for children
- Set up a subscription service to inform users of more educational games coming in the future

## User Experience (UX)

### User Requirements and Expectations

- Games that can be safely provided to children
- Easy to use
- Responsive on a range of devices
- User Can read and understand numbers between at least 1 to 100
- User Understand basic math operations ( plus and minus)
- User has no hesitation in learning

### User Stories

(Parents side)

1.  As a user, I want to let my children play educational games so they can boost their skills
2.  As a user, I want my children to enjoy learning so that they will see it as a fun activity
3.  As a user, I can use different devices so I can play on a phone or computer
4.  As a user, I can turn on or off the sound so I can choose if I want to hear the music
5.  As a user, I want to give feedback so the game designer knows how people are using their game
6.  As a user, I want to know if there are new games that will be released so I can play them

(children's side)

7. As a user, I want to improve my math skills so I can become more confident
8. As a user, I want to learn but also have fun so I can enjoy learning
9. As a user, I want to see how I am improving my math skills so I know I am getting better

### Features To Achieve These Goals

- Games are only learning-based (User story 1)
- Learning materials are game-based so children can enjoy (User stories 2,8)
- The website uses a responsive design that can be seen on different devices (User stories 3)
- Sound can be on or off (User stories 4)
- Social media icons provided on the footer give the option to users to leave feedback or contact us. Also, BRAIN KIDS provide news (User Stories 5,6)
- There is a sign-up page that can provide notifications of upcoming games to play in the future ( User stories 6)
- Addition and subtraction math game is provided (User stories 7)
- Different sound effects and audio have a positive effect on users (User stories 8)
- Math game level goes up which gives users more of a challenge (User stories 9)
- Scoreboard allows users to show their improvements (User stories 9)

## Design

As this is an educational game website for children it is catered to children, I decided to use bright colours that are cheerful and playful. The pictures in the game are chosen for children who would enjoy seeing the characters but also motivate them to learn.

### Logo

The base logo was found on the [Canva](https://www.canva.com/colors/color-palette-generator/) website. But it wasn’t clear when it was displayed on the website. So I made some changes with Photoshop and made the background transparent to display it better.

![Logo image](./assets/docs/design/logo.png)

### Colour Scheme

The tetradic colour scheme is used for this website.
Based on the colours of the colour chart shown below. Different lightness and opacity are used all over this website.

![Colour wheel image](./assets/docs/design/colour-wheel.png)
![Colour chart image](./assets/docs/design/colour-chart.png)

These different lightness are used for background colours of buttons to give better contrast.

![Colour chart for button image](./assets/docs/design/colour-chart-buttons.png)

Social media icon colours are referenced from the [U.S BRAND COLOURS](https://usbrandcolors.com/)

### Fonts

The Afacad font style was chosen for this website. It is clear and easy to read. [Google fonts: Afacad](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Afacad)

![Font style image](./assets/docs/design/font-style.png)

## Structure

The structure implemented for this project is a single HTML page that provides different pages.
The top of the page allows the user to access the game page, audio control that can be turned on and off, scoreboard and sign-up page. There are social media icons on the footer to promote this website in the future and allow users to give us feedback or ask questions. The logo has an anchor tag that can lead you to the start game page.

- Game

  The Start Game button will display the actual game screen so that the
  user can play the game.

- Game Over

  Letting users know that the game is over and shows the score they have
  gained. The home button will access the game start page.

- Score

  Provide the highest score and the previous attempt scores. The back
  button has access to go back to the start game page

- Sign Up

  Sign-up allows users to get notifications of upcoming games. after the
  form is filled out and the subscription button is pressed, it leads to a
  success message to give users feedback on their sign-up

### Technologies Used

- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript

### Frameworks

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons)
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- [Favicon](https://fonts.google.com/)

### Tools

- GitHub
- Visual Studio Code
- Photoshop
- Illustrator

## Features

### Header

- The header shows the logo of Brain Kids which gives the impression that this is a child’s educational website. The sign-up button leads to the sign-up page

The header shows the logo of Brain Kids which gives the impression that this is a child’s educational website. The sign-up button leads to the sign-up page

Desktop

![Header(Desktop) image](./assets/docs/features/header-desktop.png)

Mobile

![Header(Mobile) image](./assets/docs/features/header-mobile.png)

### Top main page

- The introduction section explains to users what this game is like and explains how to play
- The start button is clearly shown on the screen to start the game
- An audio icon button that can be turned on and off as the user clicks it. When the button is clicked the audio icon will change to show the status of the audio.
- A score button to show the scoreboard
- The image uses children playing with an abacus which gives users the understanding this game is related to mathematics for children

This section provides users with an understanding of the aim of the game. The audio button benefits users by having controls for the sound. To place the score button just under the start button, the user will see that there is a scoreboard feature. They can check their progress between games. With the big red standout start button, users can see at a glance where the start button is to start this game.

![Main page (Desktop) image](./assets/docs/features/main-desktop.png)
![Main page (Mobile) image](./assets/docs/features/main-mobile.png)
![Sound on image](./assets/docs/features/sound-on.png)

### Game Page

- Shows addition and subtraction questions generated by random numbers according to your current level.
- Level is displayed on the top of the question and when the level goes up the colour of the text will change to green for one second
- Score and life points are displayed at the bottom of the question if the answer is correct it will be increased by 1 otherwise it won’t change but the Life points will be decreased.
- On the right-hand side it shows four possible answers that a user needs to pick from.
- A bunny will be shown for 0.7 seconds whether the answer clicked is correct or not
- If the Audio is on, sound effects can be heard depending on what the users have selected whether the answer is correct or not.

Questions can be seen easily by users. When the levels increase the colour of the level text will change to green for 0.7 seconds this will let users know that the level is increasing.
Answers are options that can be clicked to make their choice. The user has clear feedback from a little bunny which will pop up to show whether the answer the user clicked was correct or not.
When the audio is on sound effects give the users the same feedback.

![Game page (Desktop) image](./assets/docs/features/game-desktop.png)

[Game page (Mobile) image](./assets/docs/features/game-mobile.png)

[Level up image](./assets/docs/features/levelup.png)

[Correct bunny image](./assets/docs/features/bunny-correct.png)

[Wrong bunny image](./assets/docs/features/bunny-wrong.png)
